What is AWS?
AWS is a secure cloud service platform which is offering compute power,database storage,content deleviry and other facilities to help businesses scal and grow.



aws has three basic types of cloud services:
compute
stoage
networking


aws storage:-

s3
glacier
ELB
EFS

Aws networks:-

VPC
Route53
CloudFront

What is auto-Scaling?

what is the diff between AMI and instance.
Many diff types of instances can be launched from one AMI.
An instance type determines the hardware of the host computer 
used for your instance.

What is the diff between scalability and elasticity?

Scalablity is the ability of a system to handle the increased load
on its current hardware and software resources.

Elasticity is the ability of a system to increase the workload by 
increasing the hardware/software resources dynamically.

In what senarion should we use classic load balancer and application load balancer?


AWS kinises

Can you run multiple websites on an EC2 server using a single IP address?
More than one elastic IP is required to run multiple websites on EC2.

A content management system running on EC2 instance is approaching 100% CPU utilization. How will you reduce the load on EC2 instance ?
This can be done by attaching a load balancer to an autoscaling group to efficiently distribute load among all instances.

Can you modify the private IP address of an EC2 instance while it is running in a VPC ?
It is not possible to change the primary private IP addresses. However, secondary IP addresses can be assigned, unassigned or moved between instances at any given point.

What are EBS volumes?
Answer:EBS stands for Elastic Block Stores. They are persistent volumes that you can attach to the instances. With EBS volumes, your data will be preserved even when you stop your instances, unlike your instance store volumes where the data is deleted when you stop the instances.

What are the types of volumes in EBS?
Answer:Following are the types of volumes in EBS,

General purpose
Provisioned IOPS
Magnetic
Cold HDD
Throughput optimized

What are the different types of instances?
Answer: Following are the types of instances,

General purpose
Computer Optimized
Storage Optimized
Memory Optimized
Accelerated Computing

What is an auto-scaling and what are the components?
Answer: Auto scaling allows you to automatically scale-up and scale-down the number of instances depending on the CPU utilization or memory utilization. There are 2 components in Auto scaling, they are Auto-scaling groups and Launch Configuration.

What are reserved instances?
Answer: Reserved instances are the instance that you can reserve a fixed capacity of EC2 instances. In reserved instances you will have to get into a contract of 1 year or 3 years.

What is an AMI?
Answer: AMI stands for Amazon Machine Image. AMI is a template that contains the software configurations, launch permission and a block device mapping that specifies the volume to attach to the instance when it is launched.

What is an EIP?
Answer: EIP stands for Elastic IP address. It is designed for dynamic cloud computing. When you want to have a static IP address for your instances when you stop and restart your instances, you will be using EIP address.


What is Cloudwatch?
Answer: Cloudwatch is a monitoring tool that you can use to monitor your various AWS resources. Like health check, network, Application, etc.


What are the types in cloudwatch?
Answer: There are 2 types in cloudwatch. Basic monitoring and detailed monitoring. Basic monitoring is free and detailed monitoring is chargeable.

What are the cloudwatch metrics that are available for EC2 instances?
Answer: Diskreads, Diskwrites, CPU utilization, networkpacketsIn, networkpacketsOut, networkIn, networkOut, CPUCreditUsage, CPUCreditBalance.

What is the minimum and maximum size of individual objects that you can store in S3
Answer: The minimum size of individual objects that you can store in S3 is 0 bytes and the maximum bytes that you can store for individual objects is 5TB.

What are the different storage classes in S3?
Answer: Following are the types of storage classes in S3,

Standard frequently accessed
Standard infrequently accessed
One-zone infrequently accessed.
Glacier
RRS – reduced redundancy storage

What is the default storage class in S3?
Answer: The default storage class in S3 in Standard frequently accessed.

What is glacier?
Answer: Glacier is the back up or archival tool that you use to back up your data in S3.

How can you secure the access to your S3 bucket?
Answer: There are two ways that you can control the access to your S3 buckets,

ACL – Access Control List
Bucket polices

How can you encrypt data in S3?
Answer: You can encrypt the data by using the below methods,

Server Side Encryption – S3 (AES 256 encryption)
Server Side Encryption – KMS (Key management Service)
Server Side Encryption – C (Client Side)

What are roles?
Answer: Roles are used to provide permissions to entities that you trust within your AWS account. Roles are users in another account. Roles are similar to users but with roles you do not need to create any username and password to work with the resources.

What are policies and what are the types of policies?
Answer: Policies are permissions that you can attach to the users that you create. These policies will contain that access that you have provided to the users that you have created. There are 2 types of policies.

Managed policies
Inline policies

What is cloudfront?
Answer: Cloudfront is an AWS web service that provided businesses and application developers an easy and efficient way to distribute their content with low latency and high data transfer speeds. Cloudfront is content delivery network of AWS.

What is the maximum individual archive that you can store in glacier?
Answer: You can store a maximum individual archive of upto 40 TB.

What is VPC?
Answer: VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud. VPC allows you to easily customize your networking configuration. VPC is a network that is logically isolated from other network in the cloud. It allows you to have your own IP address range, subnets, internet gateways, NAT gateways and security groups.

What is VPC peering connection?
Answer: VPC peering connection allows you to connect 1 VPC with another VPC. Instances in these VPC behave as if they are in the same network.

What are NAT gateways?
Answer: NAT stands for Network Address Translation. NAT gateways enables instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet but prevent the internet from initiating a connection with those instances.

How can you control the security to your VPC?
Answer: You can use security groups and NACL (Network Access Control List) to control the security to your VPC.

What is a snowball?
Answer: Snowball is a data transport solution that used source appliances to transfer large amounts of data into and out of AWS. Using snowball, you can move huge amount of data from one place to another which reduces your network costs, long transfer times and also provides better security.
 
What are the database types in RDS?
Answer: Following are the types of databases in RDS,

Aurora
Oracle
MYSQL server
Postgresql
MariaDB
SQL server

What is a redshift?
Answer: Amazon redshift is a data warehouse product. It is a fast and powerful, fully managed, petabyte scale data warehouse service in the cloud.


SQS

SNS

API Gateway

lambda :-

Lambda is a AWS compute services which run our code without provisioning or managing any servers. Lambda provides high avaliablity to run our code and aws also manage lambda administration, system maintenance, capacity provisioning, automatic scaling, code monitoring and logging.

i.	 	Function	--> Where we will deploy our code
ii.		Runetime    --> On which language we want to run our code like:- dotnet, GO, Python, ruby, c##, java, nodejs
iii.	Event/trigger --> Where lambda function will execute
iv. 	Downstream API --> after execution what lambda function will do.

We can alocate minimum 128 MB memory (RAM) and maximum will be 10,240 MB MB. We acn increase memory size in multiplication of 64 MB means 64+64+64+64 ans so on.

AWS will decide CPU Threads as per define memory size.

There are some time limitation in lambda (defauls 3 sec and max 15 minutes) like if our code coplete there process within 15 minutes then it will be good and labmda charge for only that time period.
But if our code will take several hours then it will be very costlly in comparision of EC2 so in this case we need to difine time_out means how much time our code will run and after certion period of time it will throw time_out exception.

We will create some role for lambda function that will provide access of services which is running in aws.

We can access multiple services from lambda function or if any services are running in VPC then we can also access those services.

Other services invoke our function directly. We grant the other service permission in the function's resource-based policy, and configure the other service to generate events and invoke lambda function. 

Depending on the service, the invocation can be synchronous or asynchronous. 

There are some services that invoke Lambda functions synchronously (PUSH):-

1. Elastic Load Balancing (Application Load Balancer)
2. Amazon API Gateway
3. Amazon CloudFront (Lambda@Edge)
4. Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose
5. Amazon Simple Storage Service Batch tec.
 

For asynchronous invocation, Lambda queues the event before passing it to your function. The other service gets a success response as soon as the event is queued and isn't aware of what happens afterwards. If an error occurs, Lambda handles retries, and can send failed events to a destination that you configure.

Services that invoke Lambda functions asynchronously (EVENT)
1. Amazon Simple Storage Service
2. Amazon Simple Notification Service
3. Amazon Simple Email Service
4. AWS CloudFormation
5. Amazon CloudWatch Logs etc.

When you connect a function to a VPC, Lambda creates an elastic network interface for each subnet in your function's VPC configuration. This process can take several minutes.

If you use Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) to host your AWS resources, you can establish a connection between your VPC and Lambda. You can use this connection to invoke your Lambda function without crossing the public internet. To establish a private connection between your VPC and Lambda, create an interface VPC endpoint. Interface endpoints are powered by AWS PrivateLink, which enables you to privately access Lambda APIs without an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC don't need public IP addresses to communicate with Lambda APIs. Traffic between your VPC and Lambda does not leave the AWS network. Each interface endpoint is represented by one or more elastic network interfaces in your subnets. A network interface provides a private IP address that serves as an entry point for traffic to Lambda.




code--->
import boto3
from uuid import uuid4
def lambda_handler(event, context):
    s3 = boto3.client("s3")
    dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb')
    for record in event['Records']:
        bucket_name = record['s3']['bucket']['name']
        object_key = record['s3']['object']['key']
        size = record['s3']['object'].get('size', -1)
        event_name = record ['eventName']
        event_time = record['eventTime']
        dynamoTable = dynamodb.Table('newtable')
        dynamoTable.put_item(
            Item={'unique': str(uuid4()), 'Bucket': bucket_name, 'Object': object_key,'Size': size, 'Event': event_name, 'EventTime': event_time})



 

